micro:bit: chapter 04; 05 (#271)
rust-embedded/discovery: src/05-led-roulette/light-it-up.md

abstractions provided by the crate `embedded-hal`. `embedded-hal` is a crate which provides a set of traits
that describe behaviour of hardware, for example the [OutputPin trait] which allows us to toggle a pin on or off.

In order to use these traits we have to implement them for the chip we are using, luckily this has already been done
in our case in form of the [nrf51-hal]. Crates like this are commonly referred to as HALs (Hardware Abstraction Layer)
and allow us to use the same API to blink an LED and of course many more complex things accross all chips that implement
the `embedded-hal` traits.

This also enables people to write crates that only rely on the `embedded-hal` traits being implemented for certain
objects which in turn enables anyone with a chip that implements `embedded-hal` to use this lib for themselves, despite
the other possibly not even knowing about the existance of the MCU the consumer of the library is using. For example a
person working on an embedded project might decide to implement a driver to show characters on a screen and writes a
library based on `embedded-hal` for the screen, once this library is published every chip that has a HAL library can be

> made to control said screen easily since the HALs all expose the same API.

Author: Does the latest commit explain it in a better way?

> made to control said screen easily since the HALs all expose the same API.

Reviewer: It does, thanks!

[OutputPin trait]: https://docs.rs/embedded-hal/0.2.4/embedded_hal/digital/v2/trait.OutputPin.html
[nrf51-hal]: https://crates.io/crates/nrf51-hal

## The micro:bit LEDs

On the back of the micro:bit you can see a 5x5 square of LEDs, usually called an LED matrix. This matrix alignment is

> used so instead of having to use 25 seperate pins to drive every single one of the LEDs we can just use 10 (5+5) pins in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
used so that instead of having to use 25 seperate pins to drive every single one of the LEDs, we can just use 10 (5+5) pins in
```

> order to control which column and which row of our matrix lights up. However the micro:bit team implemented this a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
order to control which column and which row of our matrix lights up. However, the micro:bit team implemented this a
```

> little different, their [schematic page] says, that it is actually implemented as a 3x9 matrix but a few columns simply

Reviewer: ```suggestion
little differently. Their [schematic page] says that it is actually implemented as a 3x9 matrix but a few columns simply
```

> remain unuused.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
remain unused.
```

> In order to determine which pins we need to control to light up an LED we can check out the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to determine which pins we need to control to light up an LED we can check out
```

micro:bit's open source [schematic], linked on the same page. The very first sheet contains the LED matrix circuit which

> is apparently connected to pins named ROW1-3 and COL1-9, further down on sheet 5 you can see that these pins

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is apparently connected to the pins named ROW1-3 and COL1-9. Further down on sheet 5 you can see that these pins
```

> directly map to our MCU, for example ROW1 is connected to P0.13.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
directly map to our MCU. For example, ROW1 is connected to P0.13.
```

> **NOTE**: The naming scheme of the NRF51 for its pins (P0.13) simply refers to port 0 (P0) pin 13. This is done

> > because on MCUs with dozens or hundreds of pins you usually end up with multiple pins grouped up as ports for sake of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> because on MCUs with dozens or hundreds of pins you usually end up with multiple pins grouped up as ports for the sake of
```

> > clarity as to which pin you might be referring to. The NRF51 however is so small that it only has one GPIO port (P0).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> clarity. The NRF51, however, is so small that it only has one GPIO port (P0).
```

[schematic page]: https://tech.microbit.org/hardware/schematic/
[schematic]: https://github.com/bbcmicrobit/hardware/blob/master/V1.5/SCH_BBC-Microbit_V1.5.PDF

## Actually lighting it up!

> The code require to light up an LED in the matrix is actually quite simple but it requires a bit of setup so first take

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The code required to light up an LED in the matrix is actually quite simple but it requires a bit of setup. First take
```

a look at it and then we can go through it step by step:

```rust
#![deny(unsafe_code)]
#![no_main]
#![no_std]

use cortex_m_rt::entry;
use panic_halt as _;
use nrf51_hal as hal;
use hal::prelude::*;

#[entry]
fn main() -> ! {
    let p = hal::pac::Peripherals::take().unwrap();

    let p0 = hal::gpio::p0::Parts::new(p.GPIO);
    let mut row1 = p0.p0_13.into_push_pull_output(hal::gpio::Level::Low);
    let mut col1 = p0.p0_04.into_push_pull_output(hal::gpio::Level::Low);

    row1.set_high().unwrap();

    loop {}
}
```

> The first few lines until the main function just do some basics imports and setup we already looked at before,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first few lines until the main function just do some basic imports and setup we already looked at before.
```

> however the main function looks pretty different to what we have seen up to now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, the main function looks pretty different to what we have seen up to now.
```

> The first line is related to how most HALs written in Rust work internally, usually these crates rely on so called

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first line is related to how most HALs written in Rust work internally. Usually these crates rely on so-called
```

> PACs (Peripheral Access Crates). A PAC is a usually autogenerated crate that provides some very minimal abstractions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PACs (Peripheral Access Crates). A PAC is usually an autogenerated crate that provides some minimal abstractions
```

> above all the peripherals our MCU has to offer and `let p = hal::pac::Peripherals::take().unwrap();` basically takes all

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for all the peripherals our MCU has to offer. `let p = hal::pac::Peripherals::take().unwrap();` basically takes all
```

> these peripherals from the PAC and saves it in a variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
these peripherals from the PAC and binds them to a variable.
```

> **NOTE**: If you are wondering why we have to call `unwrap()` here, in theory it is possible for `take()` to be called

> > more than once, this would lead to the peripherals being represented by two seperate variables and thus lots of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> more than once. This would lead to the peripherals being represented by two separate variables and thus lots of
```

> > possible confusing behaviour because two variables modify the same ressource. In order to avoid this PACs are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> possible confusing behaviour because two variables modify the same resource. In order to avoid this, PACs are
```

> > implemented in a way that would panic if you tried to take the peripherals twice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> implemented in a way that it would panic if you tried to take the peripherals twice.
```

> Once we got the peripherals we assemble the GPIO port 0 from them with `let p0 = hal::gpio::p0::Parts::new(p.GPIO);` and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once we got the peripherals, we assemble the GPIO port 0 from them with `let p0 = hal::gpio::p0::Parts::new(p.GPIO);` and
```
I would look for an alternative word for "assemble".

> proceed to construct the ROW1 and COL1 pin using the two lines below, initialized as a switched off

Reviewer: ```suggestion
proceed to construct the `ROW1` and `COL1` pin using the two lines below, initialized as a switched-off
```

> (`hal::gpio::Level::Low`) push pull output pin (`into_push_pull_output`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(`hal::gpio::Level::Low`) push-pull output pin (`into_push_pull_output`).
```

> > **NOTE** If you don't know what push pull means, don't worry about it, it's mostly irrelevant for us here, if you do

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **NOTE** If you don't know what push-pull means, don't worry about it, it's mostly irrelevant for us here, if you do
```

> > want to figure it out <ADD A GOOD RESSOURCE OR EXPLANATION FOR THIS, suggestions? @code reviewers>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> want to figure it out, have a look [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Push%E2%80%93pull_output).
```

> And now we can finally light the LED connect to ROW1, COL1 up by setting the ROW1 pin to high (i.e. switching it on).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we can finally light the LED connected to `ROW1`, `COL1` up by setting the `ROW1` pin to high (i.e. switching it on).
```

> The reason we can leave COL1 set to low is because of how the LED [matrix circuit works]. Furthermore `embedded-hal` is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The reason we can leave `COL1` set to low is because of how the LED [matrix circuit works]. Furthermore, `embedded-hal` is
```

> designed in a way so every operation on hardware can possibly return an error, even just toggling a pin on or off, since

Reviewer: ```suggestion
designed in a way that every operation on hardware can possibly return an error, even just toggling a pin on or off. Since
```

> that is however highly unlikely in our case we can just `unwrap()` the result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that is highly unlikely in our case, we can just `unwrap()` the result.
```

[matrix circuit works]: TODO ADD LINK, suggestion? @code reviewers

## Testing it

> Testing our little program is quite simple, we simply have to run `cargo-embed` again, let it flash and just like before

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Testing our little program is quite simple. We simply have to run `cargo-embed` again, let it flash and just like before,
```

open our GDB and connect to the GDB stub:

```
$ gdb target/thumbv6m-none-eabi/debug/led-roulette
(gdb) target remote :1337
Remote debugging using :1337
cortex_m_rt::Reset () at ~/.cargo/registry/src/github.com-1ecc6299db9ec823/cortex-m-rt-0.6.12/src/lib.rs:489
489     pub unsafe extern "C" fn Reset() -> ! {
(gdb)
```

> If we now let the program run via the GDB `continue` command one of the LEDs on the back of the micro:bit should light

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If we now let the program run via the GDB `continue` command, one of the LEDs on the back of the micro:bit should light
```

and allow us to use the same API to blink an LED and of course many more complex things accross all chips that implement
the `embedded-hal` traits.

For example, a person working on an embedded project might need to read temperature data from a sensor. In
order to achieve this they can write a driver library that doesn't do anything MCU specific but instead just relies on
`embedded-hal`. This will allow anyone with an MCU that implements the `embedded-hal` traits to easily plug and play

> their driver crate, despite having an MCU made by a completely different manufacturer or even with a different architecture etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
their driver crate, despite having an MCU made by a completely different manufacturer or even with a different architecture, etc.
```
